Debugging is looking for and removing errors

Static debugging
- walk through the code and check without executing - red wiggly lines, visible errors eg missing quote marks etc
- lots of tools to do this, simple syntax checker in vscode
- many available online to do this, can do some quite detailed things!

Dynamic debugging
- do execute code - like seeing the errors that are output when the code runs. 
- useful becuase it is helpful to see how your application interacts with other applications on your machine/other machines. 
- if your application puts something into a running database --> can't see if it will run until you try it.
    - different versions interact differently, different manufacturers etc - does your function work with it?
- can also pick up on poor assumptions you've made when writing your code - for example is the directory there? can the code be written into the directory needed when it is run from a server?

PDB - python debugging tool.
- Allows you to go through the code line by line to identify errors
pdb.set_trace() - allows you to set a point you wish to start debugging from. better than just sticking print(<variable>) in to check the variable
When you run the code with this line at the start, it runs though each line.
n - runs the code and takes you to the next line
p - prints the result of a variable ( but only if you have run that line)
q - quits the debugger

Very slow going through it like this. Can put it somewhere else if you dont want to start from the very top!

help(pdb) - gives you lots of posisible options

~~~~~~~~~ PYTHONTUTOR.COM ~~~~~~~~~~~~ Amazing website that shows a visual representation of each step of the code
