Useful if you have some code that is going to be maintained over a very long time
Testing = a process of analysing a software item to detect the differences between existing and required conditions (Eg defects) and to evaluate the features of the software item.

If you write a program to copy files from one directory to another
- might find it doesn't copy all file types
- might end up with corrupted data if it doesnt do file open/close properly
- data could be lost entirely - difference between overwriting and appending the files --> could overwrite someones file!

if program is wrong then 
- human costs --> boeing!!
- reputational loss
- money costs 
- potential sales lost

Therefore it is important to have atesting workflow that you know works. So need to know why we are testing and what we are testing. 
Functional
Most easy to understand
- does the program work or crash
- does it do what we expect
- does it work on all OS
- does it work reproducibly


Non Functional
- Harder to understand
- Usability
        - slow speeds on websites --> amount of users - websites have a number of users they can deal with, more than this will get connection to server timed out errors
        - News websites - often slow because of tracking cookies, links and adverts take time to load and so you click on the wrong thing.

Maintenance
- Checking updates - does a security update break other things?
- is your software old and outdated

This would be used in DevOps - CI and CD --> Called unit testing.

Python has an inbuilt one called pytest.
Pytest is the equivalent of typing everything out with print statements etc but looks neater - better for software distribution.
- There are a special set of files that you write to call the files, and you write the tests in.
- can run anyfunction or procedure that starts with test. Filename also needs to start with test_
- A way of automating tests


